What is it?
prometheus is an automated testing suite for sourcemage

Why is it?
prometheus was written because we lack the man-power to test our
grimoires, but we still have plenty of spare compute cycles.

How does it work?
you should read the INTERNALS file, but the quick overview is that it
casts things, then dispels them and reports any problems it found.

How do i run it:
well you should look at the README file for that. But basically
get into the environment you want to run it in (UML, chroot, etc.), then
cast prometheus, then type 'pm-setup' then 'pm-test once' to get going.

Its frozen at the end/begining of a cast!
yes...this is a probem with sorcery and should be fixed soon by our
wonderful hardworking sorcery team. In the meantime just do a 'pkill
casting'. pm-test-cast will finish up and things will keep going.
Eventually I will write an expect script to take care of this (and other
problems/features). If you know expect I want to talk to you!

Whats the deal with this reporting stuff?
well its pointless to cast and dispel stuff if we dont get the information
about it right? Well at the moment prometheus is getting support to
email reports and/or submit them to bugzilla (cool huh?).

I updated my system and prometheus got angry and reverted it.
Yea...prometheus is _very_ good at this, you need to re-run pm-setup
after you update stuff. Although thankfully there still should be cached
copies of everything floating around, so you can hopefully resurrect things.

The power went out on my prometheus box
okay well you dont want to run pm-test right away because it things might
have been left in a funny state. Look at the $PMDIR/state file to try and
figure out where things were left off. Run the remaining commands. The
entire list of things is
pm-update
pm-pre-cast
pm-test-cast
pm-post-cast
pm-restore

Most of them leave a record in the state file and get annoyed with you
if its something they didnt expect. If it says for example pm-test-cast:start
just run pm-test-cast and two subsequent scripts. After that you are
free to keep runing pm-test. Eventually support for this will be added
to pm-test, and you wont even have to think about it.

My question isnt in here!
email me with it! I will promptly put it in here (and answer it even,
what a deal!).
